.TH MACTELNET 1 "February 27, 2011"
.SH NAME
mactelnet \- A tool for telneting via MAC addresses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mactelnet
.RI [ options ] " " < MAC-Address | hostname > " " [ command ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool enables you to telnet other RouterOS or MAC-Telnetd enabled
devices. You can connect to either a hostname or a MAC address.
.PP
If a
.I command
is given, it is run on the remote device and
.B mactelnet
exits when it completes, instead of starting an interactive session, much like
.BR ssh (1).
Only the output of the command is printed: the login banner, the echoed command
and the prompt are left out, and long output is not paginated. The exit status is
non-zero if the command could not be run.
.PP
The command must be one that finishes: its output is printed once the console
returns to a prompt, so a command that streams forever (a bare
.BR /ping ,
say \(em use
.BR count= )
prints nothing. Such a command is interrupted after 30 seconds, and the exit
status is non-zero.
.PP
Running a command requires
.B libvterm
at build time, because RouterOS interrogates the terminal on connect and expects
a terminal emulator to answer; without it, only interactive sessions are available.
If specified, the hostname (identity) will be looked up via
.BR ether_hostton(3)
(typically in
.BR ethers(5) )
or if that fails, MNDP discovery.
.SH OPTIONS
These programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax.
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-l
This will discover RouterOS or MAC-Telnetd enabled devices. It will
list the MAC-address software version, and uptime of every device
or machine it discovers. To exit the discovery, use
.B Control + C
\.
.TP
.B \-n
Do not use broadcast packets. A tad less insecure but requires root privileges.
This means that ethernet packets will have the specified mac-address as the packet
destination, instead of using the ethernet broadcast address.
.TP
.B \-t
Amount of seconds to wait for a response on each interface. If you have several network interfaces, this is the timeout value per interface.
.TP
.B \-u
Specify username. Without this option, you will need to enter the username in a interactive prompt.
.TP
.B \-p
Specify password. Without this option, you will need to enter the password in a interactive prompt.
.TP
.B \-a
Specify the path of the autologin configuration file. The default path for this file is ~/.mactelnet. The format for this file is standard INI file layout.
.TP
.B \-A
Do not use the autologin configuration file. Interactively ask for username and password.
.TP
.B \-q
Quiet mode.
.TP
.B \-o
Do not send client public key during the authentication phase. It will force the old MD5 (pre 6.43) algorithm to be used.
.TP
.B \-h
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v
Show version of program.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mndp (1),
.BR mactelnetd (8),
.BR macping (1).
.SH AUTHOR
mactelnet was written by Håkon Nessjøen <haakon.nessjoen@gmail.com>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Håkon Nessjøen <haakon.nessjoen@gmail.com>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
